# autotest-tester-python

This repo contains a tester that runs tests using the python3 programming language.

## System requirements

If installed with the classic backend the following are required:

- python3.7+ 
  - if more than one version of python3.7+ is installed and in the `server_user`'s PATH then all versions will be made available to run tests

There are no additional requirements if installed with other backend types.

## Installation

Testers should always be installed by the autotest backend. From the autotest backend files, run:

```shell
python3 manage.py --help
```

to see how to install testers.

## Configuration

There are no additional configuration options required.

### End User configuration options

When creating an environment to run tests, users can choose the following configuration options that are specific to this tester:

- python version: which version of python3.7+ will be used to run the tests (this may be limited when installed in some backends)
- test runner: either [`pytest`](https://docs.pytest.org/) or [`unittest`](https://docs.python.org/3/library/unittest.html)
- output verbosity: indicates the verbosity level of the test output (see the documentation for each test runner for details)
- script files: indicates which files should be targeted by the test runner when running tests
- category: labels a test environment as belonging to a specific category. When tests are run in this environment, only test environments that share the same category as the requested test will be run. 
- timeout: time (in seconds) allocated to complete all tests in this environment. If tests take longer to run then a timeout error will be reported.
- feedback files: the name of feedback files generated by running the tests that will be made available to the autotest api for retrieval.
- plugins: a set of options to enable/disable plugins (depends on which ones are installed, see the documentation for each plugin for more details)
- data entries: a set of data entries installed by the backend. Selecting a data entry from this list will make it available when running tests (see the backend documentation for information on how the entries are made available) 
- extra_info: a hash containing extra information about this test environment, this information is not used by the backend to configure tests but is reported back in the test results.

